{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13660\viewh16360\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs24 \cf0 J/A+A/XXX/XXX    NIKA maps of CLJ1227 at 150 and 250 GHz    (Adam+, 2015)\
================================================================================\
Pressure distribution of the high-redshift cluster of galaxies \
CL J1226.9+3332 with NIKA\
       Adam R. A., Comis B. C., Mac\'edas-P\'e9rez J. F., et al.\
      <Astron. Astrophys. XXX, XXX (2015)>\
      =2015A&A...XXX\
================================================================================\
ADC_Keywords: Clusters, galaxy ; Radio continuum\
Keywords: Techniques: high angular resolution\
          Galaxies: clusters: individual: CL J1226.9+3332; intracluster medium\
\
Abstract:\
    The thermal Sunyaev-Zel'Dovich (tSZ) effect is expected to provide a low \
    scatter mass proxy for galaxy clusters since it is directly proportional \
    to the cluster thermal energy. The tSZ observations have proven to be a \
    powerful tool for detecting and studying them, but high angular resolution \
    observations are now needed to push their investigation to a higher redshift. \
    In this paper, we report high angular (< 20 arcsec) resolution tSZ \
    observations of the high-redshift cluster CL J1226.9+3332 (z=0.89). \
    It was imaged at 150 and 260 GHz using the NIKA camera at the IRAM 30-meter \
    telescope. The 150 GHz map shows that CL J1226.9+3332 is \
    morphologically relaxed on large scales with evidence of a disturbed core, \
    while the 260 GHz channel is used mostly to identify point source \
    contamination. NIKA data are combined with those of Planck and X-ray \
    from Chandra to infer the cluster's radial pressure, density, temperature, \
    and entropy distributions. The total mass profile of the cluster is derived, \
    and we find $M_\{500\} = 5.96^\{+1.02\}_\{-0.79\} \\times 10^\{14\} M_\{\\sun\}$ within \
    the radius $R_\{500\} = 930^\{+50\}_\{-43\}$ kpc, at a 68\\% confidence level. \
    ($R_\{500\}$ is the radius within which the average density is 500 times the \
    critical density at the cluster's redshift.) NIKA is the prototype camera \
    of NIKA2, a KIDs (kinetic inductance detectors) based instrument to be \
    installed at the end of 2015. This work is, therefore, part of a pilot \
    study aiming at optimizing tSZ NIKA2 large programs.\
\
Description:\
    The surface brightness maps of CL J1226.9+3332 obtained with NIKA at \
    the IRAM 30-meter telescope at 150 and 260 GHz are presented. They were \
    obtained during the first NIKA open pool in February 2014. The maps FWHM \
    angular resolution is 12.0" at 250 GHz and 18.2" at 150 GHz. Due to the \
    scanning strategy, the noise rms is relatively constant in the central \
    80" radius but rapidly increase towards the edge, being up to four times \
    larger in the corners. Scales larger than 2' are filtered during the data \
    reduction. The image coordinates can be found in the FITS header. Units \
    are mJy/beam.\
\
File Summary:\
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------\
FileName                               Explanations\
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------\
ReadMe                                     This file\
NIKA_map_CLJ1227_150GHz.fits               FITS image of the surface brightness  \
                                           of CLJ1226.9+3332 at 150 GHz.        \
NIKA_map_CLJ1227_260GHz.fits               FITS image of the surface brightness  \
                                           of CLJ1226.9+3332 at 250 GHz.          \
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------\
\
References:\
    Adam R., Comis B. C., Mac\'edas-P\'e9rez J. F., et al., A&A XXX\
    Pressure distribution of the high-redshift cluster of galaxies \
CL J1226.9+3332 with NIKA\
\
see also\
    Catalano A., Calvo M., Ponthieu N., et al, 2014, A&A 569, A9\
    Performance and calibration of the NIKA camera at the IRAM 30 m telescope\
\
================================================================================\
(End)}