{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue233;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10820\viewh13720\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Dear Carsten,\
\
Please find below our answers to your comments.\
Thank you very much for your help that improves the quality of our paper. Our answers will be \
noted with *** and bold text.\
\
Cheers,\
Andrea, Martino, Nicolas\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf0 \
\
Dear Andrea, Martino, Nicolas, et al. \
\
\'a0 many thanks for this very extensive and thorough draft on the \
\'a0 performance and calibration of NIKA. Below, I've listed a couple of \
\'a0 comments.:-) \
\
Best regards, \
Carsten \
\
Abstract \
\
\'a0The abstract states that NIKA can reconstruct angular scales of up to \
\'a01' while in section 1 and Sec.8.2 it is said that scales upto about \
\'a05' can be mapped. In section 6.1 it is said that "scales of the order \
\'a0of 3' and larger are not measured by the NIKA itself". Doesn't the \
\'a0scale depend also on the mapping speed and stability of the \
\'a0atmosphere ? \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 *** We changed the scales with 3 arcmin everywhere in the paper. \
Yes, the scale depends on the mapping speed and the stability of the atmosphere. We got this results \
using data from run 5 and run6 in good atmospherical conditions. 
\b0 \
\
\
Sec.1 \
\
\'a0"Calvo et al....\'a0 but these previous observational campaigns..." It \
\'a0is not clear what "these" refers to. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 *** Replaced \'93these\'94 with \'93the\'94
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
Sec.2 \
\
\'a0"According to the Pardo model, ... rather then 2.14mm channel, \
\'a0sensitive to the roto-vibrational emission line of dioxygen..." This \
\'a0is not correct. Both bands are sensitive to water absorption. And the \
\'a0main H2O absorption line is not the 183 GHz line, but the fundamental \
\'a0transition near 557 GHz. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 *** Corrected
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\
\'a0"precipitated water vapour content" -> precipitable water vapour \
\'a0(pwv) content \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 *** Corrected
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\'a0ATM also predicts the contributions of minor species like ozone to \
\'a0the atmospheric absorption. These are ignored here. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 *** Implemented
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
Sec.3 \
\
\'a0Explain REU \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 *** Replaced everywhere \'93REU\'94 with \'93Read-out electronics\'94
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
Sec.4 \
\
\'a0"of each kid..." explain/introduce the term "kid" \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 *** the term kid is introduced in sec 1. We replaced kid with pixel here.
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
Sec.5 \
\
\'a0"expected cosmic ray flux at 
\b *the*
\b0  IRAM *30m* telescope (essentially \
\'a0muons with a rate of the order of 2 events/cm2/min)." \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 *** Corrected
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
Give \'a0reference(s). \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 *** Implemented
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
Sec.6.1. \
\
\'a0larger then -> larger than (check throughout the paper) \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 *** Corrected
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\'a0Note new values of the 30m errorbeams given in the IRAM report by \
\'a0Kramer et al. 2013: \
\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.iram-institute.org/medias/uploads/eb2013-v8.2.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 http://www.iram-institute.org/medias/uploads/eb2013-v8.2.pdf}} \
\
\'a0"the real beam ... is larger than a pure Gaussian beam by a factor of \
\'a01.3." It is not clear what this factor refers to ? Note that the main \
\'a0beam of the diffraction pattern reflects the illumination of the \
\'a0primary dish, but is not altered by the underlying errorbeams. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 *** We rephrased as: \'93the integrated solid angle for the measured beam is larger than the one obtained from a Gaussian approximation of the beam.\'94
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\'a0Figure 8: \
\
\'a0"They show the typical beam pattern of the IRAM 30m \
\'a0telescope."\'a0 What is "typical" here ? \
\
\'a0Greve et al. 1998 and Kramer et al. 2013 only describe the \
\'a0circular-averaged beam pattern derived from lunar edge scans. Here, \
\'a0however, we describe the 2-dimensional structure of the beam pattern. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 *** Corrected
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\'a0I suggest to mark the half-power beamwidth of the main beam at 1 and \
\'a02mm in the upper two panels, as well as a fit of a Gaussian beam to \
\'a0the inner part of the main beam, highlighting any deviation from a \
\'a0simple single Gaussian. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 *** We will change the plot with a log scale before submission.\

\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \'a0It seems that the diffraction ring seen in the 2d plot at 1mm (lower \
\'a0left panel) at about 2' radius, corresponds to the diffraction ring \
\'a0due to panel buckling, described e.g. in Greve et al. 2013 and Kramer \
\'a0et al. 2013. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 *** Implemented.
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\'a0The upper panels would indicate that a source of radius 100" contains \
\'a0the total beam pattern. This is clearly not true, as the above papers \
\'a0show that a fraction of the total beam is contained at far larger \
\'a0distances. The figure is still fine, we'd just need to add a word of \
\'a0caution. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 *** Implemented\

\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 Sec.6.2. \
\
\'a0Eq.4: introduce x = airmass already here \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 *** Corrected
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\'a0Another advantage of the described method to correct for the \
\'a0atmospherice absorption, is that the NIKA bandpasses are naturally \
\'a0taken into account. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 *** Implemented
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\'a0Figure 10: malfunctions of the taumeter during the 2012 campaign. If \
\'a0I remember correctly, the taumeter suffered from water leackage \
\'a0during this campaign, leading to unreliable results. I'd suggest to \
\'a0check with the Granada receiver group and to not show these data. \
\'a0N.Billot is preparing a report comparing the various means to measure \
\'a0sky opacities. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 *** We replaced the plot without the opacity of the IRAM taumeter.
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
Sec.7 \
\
\'a0The half power beamwidths (HPBWs) of 13" and 18" quantify the resolution \
\'a0of NIKA and should be listed prominently also in the abstract. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 *** Implemented in the abstract
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\'a0How was the photometric correction "of the order of 10%" done ? \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 *** It is done taking into account all the systematic errors listed in table 1. I added a line in the table with the estimation of the total error.
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\'a0Table 1: how were the numbers, like 2% for the 1mm channel error of the \
\'a0spectral response, determined ? \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 *** This is already presented in section 2 on the caption Fig 2 
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\'a0Figure 13: The 2mm-NEFD stays almost constant with tau/sinEl. I don't \
\'a0see an exp(tau/sinEl) dependency. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 *** If you compare to the opacities at 2.14mm channel we expected to have an almost constant behaviour  which, from my point of view means that we are still compatible with the model. 
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\'a0"comparable to MAMBO" Add reference as given further below in the text \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 *** Implemented\

\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \'a0"the noise scales as the square root of time at least for the hour \
\'a0timescale" This sounds very defensive. Say that deeper integrations \
\'a0will be conducted during the 2014 runs. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 *** Implemented
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
Sec.8.1. \
\
\'a0"Point-like sources" Describe already here which kind of point like \
\'a0sources are listed in Table 2. In case they are time variable, we \
\'a0should add the observing dates. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 *** OK. We will implement the text for this point before submission.
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\'a0I'd suggest to say explicitly which are the weakest point sources \
\'a0detected so far at both wavelengths. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 *** OK. We will implement the text for this point before submission.
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\'a0"We suspect that this anomalous refraction..." Rephrase: We suspect \
\'a0that anomalous refraction (Altenhoff et al. 1987) caused significant \
\'a0broadening of the effective beams, diluting the measured flux during \
\'a0this time. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 *** Corrected
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\'a0Figure 14: \
\
\'a0 "NIKA-5" NIKA-6" You mean run 5 and run 6. This nomenclature is in \
\'a0 conflict with the arrays NIKA-1 and NIKA-2. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 *** Implemented
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\'a0 I'd suggest to plot fluxes on a log scale. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 *** We will change the plot with a log scale before submission.
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\'a0 Give info on solid lines for all sources. Add errorbars to NIKA data. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 *** We will implement the text for this point before submission. Concerning the error bars on NIKA data\
they are always present but in some case are too small to be seen properly.  
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\'a0 HFLS3: Give Instrument and Telescope, e.g. GISMO/IRAM-30m. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 *** We will implement the text for this point before submission.
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\'a0Horsehead: \
\
\'a0Discuss range of observed spectra indices. Spectral indices alpha are \
\'a0derived from the flux ratio via S1/S2 = (2mm/1mm)**alpha ?\'a0 Say that \
\'a0variations of alpha may be due to variations of the dust temperature, \
\'a0contamination by free-free emission, and by the CO 2-1 line at 1mm, \
\'a0and variations of the spectral index beta of thermal dust emission. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 *** Implemented
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\'a0Rephrase "There are some evidence 2mm..." \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 *** Rephrased as \'93There are some evidence of 2 mm emission only that might be due to free-free emission.\'94
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\'a0Give reference to recent work e.g. by Schneider et al. 2013: \
\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2013ApJ...766L..17S"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 http://adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2013ApJ...766L..17S}} \
\
\'a0DR21: Give reference to recent work by \
\'a0Hennemann et al. 2012: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2012A%26A...543L...3H"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 http://adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2012A%26A...543L...3H}} \
\'a0and \
\'a0Schneider et al. 2011: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2011A%26A...529A...1S"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 http://adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2011A%26A...529A...1S}} \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 *** All references implemented
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\'a0Figure 15: the color wedge chosen for DR21 could be improved to see \
\'a0more of the ridge emission. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 *** You are right. We will produce a new plot before submission.
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\'a0Table 3: some table columns are mixed (1.57 is the size of the \
\'a0region, not the integration time). \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 *** Correted
\b0 \
}