{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red85\green142\blue40;\red217\green11\blue0;\red164\green8\blue0;
}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww23380\viewh14220\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 1. Introduction\
\
\cf2 p2 : The New IRAM Kids Array 2 [...] : This paragraph is oddly placed and break a little the nice scientific presentation made just before. Moreover it can not really be a motivation for this study. The problem of contamination from point sources is true for ALL SZ observations not just NIKA2.\
\
p2 , right column : style note (optional) : it is not necessary to quote the total number of cluster a particular study made, you are only interested by MACS J1423.\
\cf0 \
p2 : "Background lensed and cluster members sub-millimeter galaxies are detected by Herschel" You imply that smg are either lensed background or cluster member but most of the background SMG are not lensed, just regular SGMs, only the one close to caustics are lensed.\
\
2.2 : curiosity : from where does the uncertainties on the brightness/compton conversion factors come from ?\
\
\cf2 2.3 : "The noise realizations were smoothed by the same 10 arc-\
sec Gaussian filter as the one used for the cluster" -> used to display the cluster. Or else, you should introduce this smoothing before the legend of fig. 1 (took me a while to find it)\
\
\cf0 Table 1 : Strangly for RS1 at 1.4 GHz Vizier (VIII/65/nvss) give a position of 14:23:47.86 +24:04:39.9 with a flux of 8.0 +- 1.1 mJy, while NED gives 9.0 +- 1.3, and the NVSS catalog 8.0 +- 1.1, strange, strange...\
\
Sources Tables : In general in tables, you should try to use the correct identifier of the sources, for example RS1 is NVSS J142347+240439, this is an unique identifier for this source, you can of course use a shortcut (RS1) throught the paper, but the original source must be listed at least once. As you will probably be the first to publish the Herschel sources, you HAVE to use an IAU compatible identifier http://cds.u-strasbg.fr/vizier/Dic/iau-spec.htx\
\
3.2 : "We then correct them for the filtering induced by the data reduction, which is of the order of 15 percent for point sources" -> This is in contradiction with (2.2) "The observed transfer function is flat and close to unity at scales that are smaller than the field of view"\
\cf3 The transfer function for diffuse emission is different from that of compact/pointlike sources. Do you want to add it in the text? I think you will write it much better than me!\
\cf0 \
\cf2 3.2 : "For SMG02 and SMG05 sources, the 150 GHz data are not included in the\
fit because of strong contamination by the local tSZ signal." I would move this sentence to the next paragraph, otherwise it reads ' fit , stacking, fit again'.\
\cf0 \
3.2 : It is unclear what you used for the fit. Only SPIRE and PACS red ? or also the NIKA data (yes you can used non detection in your likelihood) ? If you use the actual NIKA photometry point to actually correct them, you are biasing the fit. If you are not using NIKA photometry, for all sources, then say it clearly. a plot measure vs expected could also be nice, although I am not so sure with those large uncertainties, maybe just compare the stacked values (expected vs measured).\
\
Table 4 : Tab 4 only present the extrapolated values of the fit. The value of the fit itself should be presented, beta_dust and T_dust. The SEDs in appendix could be nice too.\
\
Figure 2 : Would it be possible to separate the radio and submm point source contribution to see which dominates at what distance (I expect the BCG to be the main contaminant but who knows...)\
\
4 : I am not expert enough to comment there\
\
6.2 : The flux is measured to be Y^Planck_tot ... : I guess that you do not correct for the SMG contaminant there, right ?\
\
6.3.1 : M3 -- it seems that you could seems the (residual) central sources together with the profile. Would it be possible to fit the total central sources, not just the residuals ? And why do you change the slope of the profile, then it becomes difficult/impossible to compare it with M2. I would fix the slopes for M3 and add a M4 with the best point source subtraction + free slopes\
\
Figure 5 : you could plot pressure profile times [1,5,10] in order to shift the different profile and have understandable figure\
\
Figure 7, left : Would it make sense to plot a differential density ? cm-3 / kpc it would be to distinguish between observations.\
\
6.3.2 : "in agreement but slightly larger than the Planck" : would it be explained by the fact that Planck Y as not been corrected for the SMG contamination ?\
\cf3 Most likely because of the radio contamination.\cf4 \
\cf0 \
Figure 8 & discussion in 6.3.2 : You discuss the upper and lower limits given by M1, M2 and M3 alltogether.. Isn't it dominated by the fact that you fixed the slopes of the distribution, instead of the source contamination ?\
\
7.1 : p14 "fitting jointly the NIKA and Planck data." Is that coming from the Y_tot from Planck ?\
\
7.2 : About the use of NOEMA for radio sources : It will be very challenging, because the expected fluxes are still faint, and you would need at least two bands to be able to compute a spectral index to confirm the nature of those sources. You could open up on new all sky radio surveys, as the EMU with ASKAP for the southern hemisphere, and/or SKA full sky surveys later on. The jVLA might also be planning a new all sky survey like the NVSS/FIRST, but deeper, in the northern hemisphere.\
\
At the end, what is the main contaminant for clusters ? Radio sources or SMGs ?\
}